
H-FENCE
Horizontal fence




Introduction:

“Horizontal fence”

It is a safety net that saves people from accidentally falling off from building.


Rationale:

      The Problem:-

Falling off from building is second most cause of death by accident.
No proper solution to this, only remedies and precautions available.
The injuries vary from few fractures to fatal death.

The solution we found:-

A safety net across the building to save from falling.
It will be activated when the sensors installed on the buildings will detect a person falling form terrace/ balcony/ window etc.
When detected it will release the net/ mat placed at ceiling of ground floor.
The net will catch the person before falling off to ground.

Objectives:-

To save a person accidentally falling off from high rise buildings.
To reduce the number of the "Falls" cases.

Research Methodology:-

Globally, falls are a major public health problem. An estimated 646 000 fatal falls occur each year, making it the second leading cause of unintentional injury death, after road traffic injuries. Over 80% of fall-related fatalities occur in low- and middle-income countries, with regions of the Western Pacific and South East Asia accounting for 60% of these deaths. In all regions of the world, death rates are highest among adults over the age of 60 years.
Though not fatal, approximately 37.3 million falls severe enough to require medical attention occur each year. Such falls are responsible for over 17 million DALYs (disability-adjusted life years) lost . The largest morbidity occurs in people aged 65 years or older, young adults aged 15-29 years and children aged 15 years or younger. 

H-FENCE is a safety net to save a person falling from a building.
The H-fence safety net will be connected to IOT.
It will be installed on all sides of building and will open when the sensors placed on the buildings will detect a person in its environment.
It will open the safety net of the particular side and save the person falling to ground.
Falling off from heights is second most cause of accidental death in the world after the road accidents.



Components:
PIR Sensor
Net
Poles
Dedicated Controller
Power Supply




Preliminary Work / Survey :-

Our Physical visit to Fire Station , Hinjewadi phase 1, Pune.

Meeting Sir Sunil Ingavle ,

We discussed our project idea with him , he too shared some knowledge with us about rescue the person falling from heights . 
Also he queried about challenges in detecting a person , birds and other objects in air.
Which we sorted after by deciding to implement AI in the sensor to study the object that the sensor detects is human or something else.



According to WHO :
Falls are the second leading cause of accidental or unintentional injury deaths worldwide.
Each year an estimated 646 000 individuals die from falls globally of which over 80% are in low- and middle-income countries.
Adults older than 65 years of age suffer the greatest number of fatal falls.
37.3 million falls that are severe enough to require medical attention occur each year.
Prevention strategies should emphasize education, training, creating safer environments, prioritizing fall-related research and establishing effective policies to reduce risk.

Other risk factors include:
occupations at elevated heights or other hazardous working conditions; 
alcohol or substance use; 
socioeconomic factors including poverty, overcrowded housing, sole parenthood, young maternal age; 
underlying medical conditions, such as neurological, cardiac or other disabling conditions;
side effects of medication, physical inactivity and loss of balance, particularly among older people; 
poor mobility, cognition, and vision, particularly among those living in an institution, such as a nursing home or chronic care facility; 
unsafe environments, particularly for those with poor balance and limited vision.


Expected Outcomes :-

We are creating this system with a vision of saving a person accidently falling off from a building.
We believe that precaution is better than cure. We expect that our proposed system will act as a major outcome in saving a person’s life.


Benifits to society:-

It will reduce the chances of falling off from the high-rise structures and buildings. Our proposed system will increase the employability among the youth. It will also add an additional feature for the building’s safety.

Future Scope:-

To install the H-Fence in all the high rise, sky scrapers, and the buildings with the high risk of falling, around the globe.


SWOC Analysis / Limitations:-

Strength  -
only solution to save a person accidently falling from building.
Weakness  -  
to be accepted by the builders.
Opportunities  -  
Since it is new to market, it has the first move advantage 
As well as to grab the majority of market size.
Challenges  -  
the complex structure of few buildings.



References:-

Who website.
Ncrb website.
Wikipedia.


